Discuss why and how to create licenses with usethis and reuse (#41)
esciencecenter-digital-skills/reproducible-research-through-reusable-code: episodes/further-improvements.md

::: challenge
## Add a license to your project

A license is essential so that others can reuse and adapt your work. 

You can use  https://choosealicense.com/ to find a suitable license for your project. If you do not know which one to pick, we recommend using the [Apache License 2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/){target="_blank"}, a common permissive open-source license. You can also check if your institution recommends certain licenses for research software. 

You can find more information on licenses in the [licensing chapter from the Turing Way](https://book.the-turing-way.org/reproducible-research/licensing/).

::: group-tab
### R

You can use [`usethis`](https://usethis.r-lib.org/reference/licenses.html) to automatically generate a license of your choice. We installed `usethis` in an earlier episode, but if you don't have it yet, install it with:
``` r
install.packages("usethis")
```
Then run:

``` r
library(usethis)

> use_mit_license(copyright_holder = "Your Name")

Reviewer: Why use MIT here when Apache is recommended earlier?

```

> This will create a file called `LICENSE` with the permissive MIT license in the root folder of your project. If you want to use a different license, check out the [usethis documentation](https://usethis.r-lib.org/reference/licenses.html) so see the other options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a file called `LICENSE` with the permissive MIT license in the root folder of your project. If you want to use a different license, check out the [usethis documentation](https://usethis.r-lib.org/reference/licenses.html) to see the other options.
```

Once you generated the `LICENSE` file, inspect it and make sure the copyright holder, the organization and year are correct. You can then stage the new file and commit the changes with a suitable message, for example:

``` bash
git add LICENSE
git commit -m "Add LICENSE"
git push # if you are using a remote repository
```

### Python

You can use the [`reuse`](https://pypi.org/project/reuse/) package to automatically generate a license of your choice.

In the terminal, run:

```bash
pip install reuse  # if you don't have reuse installed already

> reuse download --output LICENSE MIT

Reviewer: Why use MIT here when Apache is recommended earlier?

```

> This will create a file called `LICENSE` with the permissive MIT license in the root folder of your project. If you want to use a different license, check out the [usethis documentation](https://usethis.r-lib.org/reference/licenses.html) so see the other options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will create a file called `LICENSE` with the permissive MIT license in the root folder of your project. If you want to use a different license, check out the [`supported-licenses` command](https://reuse.readthedocs.io/en/stable/man/reuse-supported-licenses.html) to see the other options.
```
